## Abstract:
Using Return on Investment as a metric for the engagement and expansion of audience per dollar spent, our project considers what seasons, genres, and plots could be used to launch a new streaming service.

## Libraries:
    pandas
    requests
    numpy
    matplotlib
    BeautifulSoup
    json
    ast
    math
    Seaborn

## Data Collection 
To collect data we started with the data that was given to use in the zippeddata file. The bulk of our data was scraped from the IMDB website. The first web scraper was used to pull IMDB keys for each of the films in our dataset by using the IMDB search function. The second utilized the IMDB keys to gather basic film information not in the numbers database like genre, runtime, MPAA rating, and cast. The third webscaper was used to collect plot keywords from a second IMDB url. We queried using the IMDB ID in a url and to loop through each movie page retrieving a list of the top 10 plot keywords. 
 
## Data Cleaning
The primary focus of our initial data cleaning was to correctly render integers and floats numerically, so that we could perform initial queries. 
After our scrapes of IMDB, we focused on rendering the data we collected as iterable lists that could be juxtaposed in tandem to the domestic and world return on investment information generated by The Numbers data, so that we could produce more specialized visualizations. 
## Data Visualization
We used both matplotlib and seaborn to effectively visualize our data. 
 
# Introduction

Critics and audiences can often stand at opposite ends when it comes to what makes a great movie. Only, audiences don’t just vote with their voices but also with their ticket purchases. Added to this question of what makes a great movie is the current landscape and strategies of streaming services. In the hypothetical scenario of MIcrosoft launching their own streaming service, we’ve developed a strategy for the platform by analyzing 1,780 movies released during the 2010s from data scraped from The Numbers and IMDB

To figure out how Microsoft’s platform could succeed, we began by asking the following questions:
    When are audiences most likely to engage with a new film? 
    What genres have the highest return on investment?
    What plots have the highest return on investment?

Why use return on investment to measure audience engagement?

Since only when a film recuperates twice its budget is it considered financially successful, when a film triples, quadruples, or quintuples it can be considered exemplary. The news is dominated by big budget movies breaking box office records, but cases where a film makes several times more than what was initially invested would be more rewarding models for a new streaming platform.
As Microsoft’s new streaming service would want to expand its audience as quickly as possible, using the release and content of films with high domestic and world return on investment as a template would focus the platform’s initial strategy on the kinds of stories and content that would quickly expand its audience beyond its initial budget, as opposed to those films that are critically praised but popularly derided and those films with behemoth budgets.

https://github.com/azieky/Movie_Project_Mod_1/blob/Alex/Data_Visualizations/Comparing_Budget_Viz.png
